Shattings
=========

> SHAred + SeTTINGS = *Shattings*

## About ##

Shattings is a collection of scripts and settings which improve my own
productivity at the terminal. YMMV.

It is a work in progress. Not guaranteed to be useful for anyone
except me. Scroll below to the section titled "Quick Install" to get
started.

## License ##

This colleciton of works is Copyright (C) 2012 Robert Quattlebaum. The
individual files contained in this collection may or may not be
covered by this license. Such files are clearly marked.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.


## Quick Install ##

If you have `curl` installed, type:

    bash -c "$(curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/darconeous/shattings/master/quick_start.sh)"

If you don't have `curl`, but have `wget`, type:

    bash -c "$(wget -O /dev/stdout https://raw.githubusercontent.com/darconeous/shattings/master/quick_start.sh)"

---

## Other Stuff ##

Another good complement to shattings on MacOS X is
[Homebrew](http://brew.sh).

    ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"

or, to install it in your home directory:

    cd ~ && mkdir homebrew \
		&& curl -L https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew/tarball/master \
		| tar xz --strip 1 -C homebrew

Below are the homebrew packages that I always tend to install:

    brew install c-kermit
    brew install nmap
    brew install xmlstarlet
    brew install tmux
    brew install dos2unix
    brew install wget
    brew install wine

For general software development:

    brew install pkg-config
    brew install boost
    brew install abnfgen
    brew install node
    brew install docker
    brew install qemu

For secure element stuff:

    brew install mfcuk
    brew install mfoc
    brew install nfcutils
    brew install yubico-piv-tool
    brew install ykpers
    brew install ykclient
    brew install gpshell
    brew install globalplatform
    brew install libfreefare

For CoAP stuff:

    brew tap darconeous/embedded
    brew install smcp

For embedded development:

    brew tap darconeous/embedded
    brew install arm-2008q3-gcc
    brew install avr-gcc
    brew install avr-gdb
    brew install avrdude         # For general-purpose AVR programming.
    brew install dfu-programmer  # For programming AVR USB chips.
    brew install avarice         # For using GDB.
    brew install darconeous/embedded/sdcc # SDCC with special fixes
    brew install cc-tool         # For using the CC-Debugger
    brew install srecord
    brew install open-ocd

---

[MouseTerm](https://bitheap.org/mouseterm/) is also useful for
enabling mouse support in vim.
